
  📖 实体详情
  类型: bic_agent_KnowledgeEntry,KGV2Managed
  名称: L1：Note:39836.1 Clustering Factor
  ID: 4:8ed6c541-fe08-4ade-ae68-a79bf45316f4:1996805

  ── 描述 ──
  son to the table that it is based upon. It is used as an indicator for computing the estimated cost
  of the table lookup foilowing an index access. The Clustering Factor records the number of data
  blocks that will be accessed when scanning an index. Clustering factor values can be seen in the
  following views: ALL|DBA|USER_INDEXES. It can be set also in the ALL|DBA|USER_IND_PARTITIONS and
  ALL|DBA|USER_IND_SUBPARTITIONS when the indexes are partitioned. It is calculated as follows: o The
  index is scanned in order. o The block portion of the rowid pointed at by the current indexed value
  is compared with that pointed at by the previous indexed value. This is achieved by comparing
  adjacent rowids in the index leaf block (the blocks themselves do not need to be visited). o If
  these rowids are pointing at different blocks then a counter is incremented. o This is continued
  throughout the whole index o The resultant count is then stored. If the count is close to the number
  of blocks in the table then the index is well ordered. This is true because the counter only gets
  incremented when the actual data is found in a different block from the last piece of row data. If
  the count is close to the number of rows in the table then the index is less well ordered. In this
  case adjacent index entries do not tend to point to the same block in the table, thus more block
  reads are likely to be required. Data blocks are more likely to have to be revistited with a higher
  clustering factor. The clustering factor can be used to adjust the potential numberof blocks that
  will be accessed by a particular predicate or query. This is useful for determining the number of
  base table blocks that will be visited when accessed via the index. The clustering factor is
  effectively a count of the number of data blocks visited as the result of an index lookup.
  Multiplying the clustering factor by the selectivity will give the cost of the operation. It is
  predominately used to calculate costs for index range scans. .

  ── 摘要 ──
  Clustering Factor 记录索引扫描时访问的数据块数，其值可通过 ALL|DBA|USER_INDEXES 等视图查看。它通过顺序扫描索引并比较相邻 rowid 所指向的数据块是否变化来计数，若值接近表的块数，索引顺序良好；若接近行数，则索引顺序较。
