
  📖 实体详情
  类型: bic_agent_KnowledgeEntry,KGV2Managed
  名称: L1：A look into oracle redo, part 11: log writer worker processes | Frits Hoogland Weblog-c2
  ID: 4:8ed6c541-fe08-4ade-ae68-a79bf45316f4:2046002

  ── 描述 ──
  A look into oracle redo, part 11: log writer worker processes | Frits Hoogland Weblog-c2 A look into
  oracle redo, part 11: log writer worker processes | Frits Hoogland Weblog Thanks Frits for sharing
  Thomas Saviour Reply ↓ Frits Hoogland said: September 29, 20181:00 pm Hi Thomas, thank you for
  reading! Private strands are private to a process, and work closely together with In-Memory Undo. I
  got a blogpost that shows some of the specifics for both:
  https://fritshoogland.wordpress.com/2016/11/15/redo-a-blogpost/ I haven’t investigated private
  strands as much as I did investigate regular redo generation of a process. Plus there are additional
  reasons private strands are not used; I do believe RAC disables private strands for example. My
  current thinking is the idea of private strands is the following: traditional redo generation means
  all generated redo needs access to a public redo strand. By using private strands, the redo
  generation is done to a buffer that is unique to a single process, so it can’t run into a taken redo
  allocation latch. However, when the transaction is committed, the generated redo is flushed from the
  private strand into a public strand, because only the public strands are written to the online redo
  log files. So my current reasoning is that private strands are a way to batch redo generation into
  the public strands. Any additions or comments are welcome, I did not validate this statement, it is
  based on my investigations on regular redo generation, as well as investigating private strands
  generally. Second note: I hardly run into databases that have serialisation issues with the redo
  allocation latch. Some of them might be using private strands, but as I indicated: RAC disables
  private strand usage too, and these too almost consistently do not have redo allocation latch issues
  too. This means that as far as I see it now, by creating multiple public strands, Oracle mitigated
  an issue that was present in certain scenario’s in the past. Reply ↓ Ora600Tom said: September 29,
  20184:42 pm Thanks Frits. After posting the question, I realized, the consolidated redo vector
  copied from Private redo strands to the Public Strands, so there is no scope for worker processes.
  However, the idea of “flushed from Private strands to Public strands during commit” is not digesting
  to me as 1. A large transaction can generate much more redo which may not fit into a Private
  strands. In such cases, Private strands needs flush the redo to the Public strands (or directly to
  the log file) well before the commit. 2. Again for a large transaction, it is unconvincing that
  Oracle will move the entire redo from Private strands to Public and again to log files. Is it not a
  double work Thanks for the discussion! Regards Thomas Saviour Reply ↓ Frits Hoogland said: September
  29, 20184:50 pm Perhaps I should have been more clear. The purpose of private strands is to take the
  pressure off the redo allocation latches. This is a simplification, but essentially it’s a private
  buffer that sits in front of the public redo strands, and could reduce the number of redo allocation
  latch gets for the public redo strands. And yes, there are many cases where the private strands can
  not buffer the entire transaction and need to be flushed to the public ones, see x$ktiff for
  documented reasons. What I also tried expressing is that I don’t see a lot of contention for redo
  allocation latches nowadays, which is probably because of multiple public strands. Reply ↓ Ora600Tom
  said: September 29, 20185:19 pm Thanks for the quick reply! Reply ↓ Leave a Reply Cancel reply Fill
  in your details below or click an icon to log in: Email (required) (Address never made public) Name
  (required) Website You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change ) You are
  commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change ) You are commenting using your Facebook
  account. ( Log Out / Change ) Cancel Connecting to %s Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me
  of new posts via email. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is
  processed. Blog at WordPress.com. Follow Following Frits Hoogland Weblog Join 4,038 other followers
  Sign me up Already have a WordPress.com account Log in now. Frits Hoogland Weblog Customize Follow
  Following Sign up Log in Copy shortlink Report this content View post in Reader Manage subscriptions
  Collapse this bar Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you
  agree to their use. To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy %d
  bloggers like this: ad

  ── 摘要 ──
  讨论了 Oracle redo 私有 strand 与公共 strand 机制：私有 strand 是进程独占的缓冲区，用于减少公共 redo strand 上的 redo allocation latch 争用，提交时批量刷入公共 strand 再写入联机日志。大事务需提前刷新，可查询 X$KTIFF 查看未完全缓。
